# Capstone-Project
Project files for IBM Capstone Project
Link to presentation: https://medium.com/@varooney/battle-of-the-suburbs-finding-the-best-place-to-live-in-brisbane-using-k-means-clustering-974d0647a3d8
Introduction
Brisbane is the 3rd largest city in Australia and the capital of Queensland otherwise known as the Sunshine State. It has a diverse population of approximately 2.5 million people and is ranked top 50 in the world’s most liveable cities. With over 280 days of sunshine and pleasant weather all year round, Brisbane attracts people both locally and internationally seeing roughly 9 million visitors and 20,000 new residents every year. Moreover, with Queensland’s quick recovery from the COVID-19 crisis and the economy opening up many are looking towards Queensland’s sunshine capital to start a new life. The biggest challenge for families moving to Brisbane is finding a place to live that is affordable, safe, and has some form of recreation. But how does one go about this without any experience living in the city? Well you could ask someone who’s lived there to give you their opinion… or better yet you could ask a computer what it thinks is the best suburb in Brisbane!
In this project I will utilise an unsupervised machine learning algorithm known as k-Means clustering, which takes unlabelled data and groups them based on similar features, to uncover underlying patterns about Brisbane’s suburbs. I use easily accessible datasets from ABS and QLD Police for demographic and crime statistics, scrape property website for housing prices, and use Foursquare’s Places API to get information about nearby venues to feed into the algorithm to try and answer the question: what are the most liveable suburbs in Brisbane? The results from this project will try and aid prospective visitors and residents about potential suburbs to live in based on their needs.
